Hey friends, this is Scott.
I want you to know
how much I appreciate you
as listeners. And I hope
you appreciate my sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Raygun provides full stack error,
crash, and performance monitoring for
tech teams. Whether you're a
software engineer looking to diagnose
and resolve issues with greater
speed and accuracy or a
product manager drowning in bug
reports, or maybe you're just
concerned. You're losing customers to
poor quality online experiences. Raygun
can provide you with the
answers, get full stack error
and performance monitoring in one
place. The next time you're
struggling to replicate errors and
performance issues and your code
base think Raygun head over
to raygun.com. That's R a
Y G U n.com and
get up and running within
minutes and dramatically improve your
online experiences of your users.
This is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking with dr. Neil Brown.
He's a research fellow at
Kings college in London. How
are you, sir? I'm fine.
Thank you. How are you?
I'm lovely. And I'm always
excited to talk about teaching
programming and you recently published
a paper in the, in
a computational biology paper on
10 quick tips for teaching
programming, which almost sounds like
a fun blog post and
not a formal paper as
a title. Yeah, it's a,
it's nice actually to write
a sort of summary paper.
So none of this is
particularly our, our own research,
but just to try and
write a summary for a
general audience of how to,
how to teach programming. And
this is a kind of
a summary of research around
the space of educational psychology.
Like how people's brains absorb,
how teachers should teach, how
children learn a subject specific
activities. Yeah, that's right. So
what important sort of result
from from education is that
each discipline is sort of
learnt in a, in a
domain specific way. So there's
a bunch of general education
or sort of teaching tips,
but a lot of the
ones that are very useful
are domain specific. So how
you teach mathematics is different
than how you teach programming
is different than how you
teach science and computing doesn't
really have as long a
history as some of the
other subjects. So we wanted
to try and get together
some of the tips that
people have researched and have
shown work to try and
sort of educate some of
the computing teachers out there
is, is there one way
or one more correct way
to teach something? Because it
seems like there's, we've learned
about different learning styles, acoustic
learners, and visual learners and
kinesthetic learners. How can we
say this is the right
way to teach programming? So,
so interestingly, the, the learning
styles thing has generally not
been supported by research. So,
so that one hasn't actually
been found to be reliable,
but more Generally that there
isn't usually a correct, you
know, a single correct way
to teach it all sort
of comes down to percentages.
To some extent, you know,
this seems to be reasonably
effective. This may be slightly
less effective. There aren't that
many techniques that are sort
of horrifically ineffective, and they
generally aren't in use in
practical settings. So we're not
out to say this is
the one way to teach,
but we want to say
this has been found to
be effective. You know, maybe
you should consider it in
your context if, if that
makes sense. Hmm. I see.
So this isn't a list
of commandments. There's really not
a list of directors and
it's tips mostly like consider
this there's evidence that supports
it. Yeah. Teachers, you know,
we talked to teachers, they
don't like anyone coming in
and saying, you know, this
is how you must do
it. They want to sort
of have ideas that they
can weave into their own
teaching. Maybe they've got students
where pair programming is, is
not going to have sort
of Pat out very well.
And so they want to
drop that tip. Maybe they've
got a setting where they
think it would work really
well. So it's up to
them to, to actually put
it into place. The first
tip. And I think kind
of the one that hits
the hardest is that you
say, remember, there's no geek
gene because in this, in
this world right now in
2018, we're, we're trying to
foster an inclusive environment where
it's not just kind of
old white dudes doing computing.
And just as I mentioned
before, about, about learning styles,
it intuitively feels like that
is, that is a thing.
And you said that the
research doesn't support it. It
intuitively does feel like some
people are, are geeks. And
you're saying the research doesn't
show that. Yeah. So there's
this long been this idea
in computer education of a
bimodal distribution that you've got
the people that get low
marks and just don't get
it. So the people who
got high marks and do
get it, and you know,
I've done some programming teaching
myself at the past, or
do you know, you see
some people who are struggling
and it's very tempting to
just basically give up on
them and say, they're just
not going to get it
while the person next to
them, for some reason just
seems to be flying at
you. Like yeah, they get
it. What the research seems
to suggest is there, isn't
actually as big a difference
as people think. And there's
a sort of interaction with
teacher belief. So people who
think that way, that either
you do get it, or
you don't get it, they'll
tend to lend less support
for the ones who don't
get it. Cause you know,
it, it is more frustrating
to teach somebody who's struggling
with a subject is kind
of more awarding if somebody
is really leaping on themselves,
but they don't actually need
the teaching so much the
ones who need the teaching
and the ones who are
doing worse. And so what
the research seems to suggest
is if you, if you
seek, they're not going to
make it, you maybe give
up on them a bit
more and perhaps encourage more
of this sort of bi-modal
distribution, but it's really not
as wide a separation. As,
as people seem to think.
Interesting in the back in
the nineties, there was a
controversy when a Barbie doll
came out where you pull
the string on barmy Barbie's
back and Barbie said math
is hard. And when someone
gets that in their head,
early on, math is hard,
then they've decided it is
like, for example, I did
poorly in calculus and I
starting to realize with, you
know, the hindsight behind me
that they had built up
calculus as being the most
scary thing. It was the
peak of my high school
career. And, you know, hope
you survive calculus. I think
that if I had been
told from age 10 that
it was going to be
a great fun, positive thing,
it might've changed my attitude.
Yeah. And I think people
can get early impressions of
the subject that will make
a big difference if they
think, Oh, this is hard.
Or this is, you know,
very intricate and technical or
this is difficult. And there's
various sort of more social
teaching tips that we perhaps
didn't include him. But Greg
Wilson who's my Coldwell sir,
is a sort of fan
of them. People saying things
like, Oh, just do this.
You recommend spanning the word
just because it makes it
sound like it's, it's so
simple, you know, why didn't
you just do that? But
the language can make a
difference. So rather than try.
And so the penalize people
for not understanding the early
concepts, just teach some of
the early concepts and support
them in what they're doing.
Don't make some feel sort
of small lifts. They, they
don't immediately take to it.
I appreciate that. You said
that because I I've tweeted
just before. And it seems
like just, and well actually
seemed to be like the
words of the day right
now. It's so, so often
someone will say, why didn't
you just, you know, do
a whatever kind of obscure
bubble short. And then it's
like, wow, there's so much
to unpack in that one
sentence where you minimize me,
told me I was a
dumb and then told me
something I don't understand to
use instead just really is
the, the evil in teaching.
And I find myself saying
just, but when you put
this little thought into somebody's
mind, don't say it. Then
when you do find yourself
saying it, you actually sort
of reconsider, Oh, am I
doing that saying, you know,
it's hard to change your
speech. And it's hard to
sort of rule out doing
things like that. But if
you can just be a
little bit more aware of
it, it just helps a
heart just, yeah, exactly. Does
it matter though, like if
I was talking with my
wife about my son is
struggling with some aspects of
math right now and where
we're struggling because he's lazy,
you know, he's not, he's
just basically sloppy. He's being
sloppy. And in order to
save five minutes or, you
know, in order to he,
so he can play, like
he, he, he, he, he,
he rushes through it. And
then of course we have
to go over his test,
which takes double the time.
So we're trying to explain
to him, if you put
five minutes more checking of
your work, then you will
save yourself like an hour
of going over this later.
And we were trying to
figure how to phrase it.
And we are going back
and forth about how, how
gentle we should be, how
encouraging we should be versus
how crisp we have to
be. Like, you need to,
you need to focus on
this need, like, you know,
tough love as they say,
how important is the language
that we use to encourage
someone and make them succeed?
Yeah. There have been some
bits of research suggested it
can be, make a difference.
And I think it often
makes a difference if people
are more nervous, you know,
to begin with about perhaps
if they're in a course,
for example, about taking the
course. So that may be
that sort of minorities are
a little bit more nervous
about whether they fit in.
So they're more easily put
off by some of these
sort of language issues, whereas
people who are maybe have
some natural confidence and think
they're going to get it,
it maybe doesn't make that
sort of much difference to
them. So you just have
to judge a person by
person basis. I think, is
this a person who I'm
really going to knock if
I give them some tough
love or is it someone
who's overconfidence? And you just
say, you've got to, you've
got to sort this out
and you can just say
something quite Frank to them
and they'll take it on
board. Yeah, that's a good
point. And the last is
the last thing we want
to do is push someone
out of, of the industry
or out of interest within
a topic by being, you
know, by, by too much
tough love. But at the
same time that does require
work. It is a challenge.
Yeah. And that's come up
recently, I think with some
of these discussions about stack
overflow as to whether, you
know, what kind of attitudes
that promotes to people that
people on there can sometimes
be quite sort of dismissive
or come across a bit
more confrontational than they mean
to. And for some people
that's fine. They love it.
They thrive on it and
you know, they're happy with
that. And for other people,
it really puts them off.
And the problem with the
internet is when you write
a public post, you've no
idea who's on the other
end reading it. So it's
quite difficult to pitch pitch
your sort of a tone.
Right. I think, Yeah, it
absolutely is. And you know,
one person might say, well,
yeah, you know, go and
do the work, learn it,
suck it up. And another
person might say, yeah. And
that was the stack overflow
post that made me realize
that people in computing are
not nice and I'm going
to go do another, The
whole industry. Yeah, yeah. Quite.
Yeah. Yeah. You also propose
that peer instruction, not just,
you know, teacher to student,
but one-on-one tutoring, you know,
of course it certainly, if
the teacher can focus on
the student entirely, that'd be
great. But an opportunity there
is to take the other
students and pair them up
in a Appropriate, appropriate levels
of skill and they can
push each other forward. Yeah.
The other part of this
comes from a sort of
modern interest in really scaling
up education. Especially a few
years ago, MOOCs were thought
to be the answer, you
know, how do you scale
up education? Whether you have
one set of materials and
then you just have these
sort of thousands and thousands
of learners, you know, reading
materials and sort of operating
on them independently that seems
to produce sort of quite
high dropout rates. So there's
the question of whether that's
maybe ideal, we get this,
even in sort of traditional
higher education, you might have
a lecture theater of 200,
300 students in someplace. And
you know, how could you
scale that? Obviously the, you
can have one lecturer standing
at the front talking to
them all, but they can't
give individualized feedback to 300
students during the lecture. So
peer instruction was an idea
to try and make it
a bit more interactive and
a bit more scalable that
you join these people into
maybe groups of three who
are sitting next to each
other. You perhaps ask them
a question like here's a,
here's a piece of C
code, what's it going to
produce? And do you have
a particularly sort of tricky
one with, you know, an
intricate quarter case so that
people might get it wrong,
they might get it right.
You then get people to
predict the answer and following
the prediction, you get them
to discuss with their neighbors,
why they made the prediction.
Obviously it works best if
they've made different predictions and
to discuss and talk among
themselves about why they might
be right or wrong. And
then that way you get
individualized feedback on your misconceptions,
in a room potentially of
any size, because you've got
people talking to each other
and trying to work through
it together. So it's quite
an interesting idea on how
to sort of scale up
learning ethic. And just for
people who may have missed
it at the beginning of
that paragraph, you said, move
massively, open online courses, M
O C, this idea that
we can somehow Le let
everyone learn. If they just
go online, join these massive
online courses, which are fairly
homogeneous in the way that
they teach. I mean, you're
in a browser already. You're
online already. You're not really
getting one-on-one experience, but it
wasn't attempt to, to get
to scale learning in the
computer science. Yes. Yeah. I
think it's perhaps fair to
say they haven't, they were
over-hyped to begin with. I
think they potentially have a
role, but that there was
a sort of thought that
they would completely replace universities.
And obviously I'm, I'm biased.
I work at a university,
but I think that's, that's
not going to happen. I
think there'll be a space
for sort of more informal
learning along the lines of
these MOOCs and, and for
more formal learning still. Well,
one of the things that
I found the most useful
about formal learning about sitting
down and like, you know,
taking an electrical engineering class
and building a clock from
scratch using and Gates and
Oregon dates and, you know,
that kind of stuff was,
it helped me get a
sense of the big picture,
but I'm afraid. I realized
that as a, as a
programmer in my forties, I
have the benefit of history
behind me. I've seen, you
know, Moore's law build layers
on top of layers. I've
gone from C to C
plus plus to C sharp.
And I've done Java as
I moved my way up
the stack. There's a new
generation of developer out there
who thinks that Java script
is the metal and they're
coding on the metal at
the low, the lowest level
of JavaScript, but they've got
three virtual machines between them
and the actual metal. Is
that okay? Am I just
a crusty old programmer? And
I, that I feel that
people should learn the whole
stack or is there some
concept, a mental model that
people should have to be
an effective development? Yeah, I
think it's still an open
question. It comes to an
issue research that's called the
notional machine, which is any
programmer who's writing a program
needs to be able to
basically model in their head.
What's going to happen when
the program runs so that
you, you have the code
and then you've got this
notional machine in your minds
that you essentially using to
run the code and obviously
problems arise. If your notional
machine has a mismatch to
the actual sort of machine.
And perhaps early on that
can come down to semantics
that you don't realize exactly
what the instruction will do.
I think it often crops
up in professional programming in
relation to things like performance
and whether people who have
got an idea of what
might be quick or what
might be slow in their
sort of notional machine and
whether that actually matches to
what's quick or slow in
the, in the real machine.
Yeah. That brings up that
idea of assumptions, right? And
like at the beginning of
our stay, our conversation, I
made a couple of assumption.
You said, well, the research
doesn't support that I can
make all kinds of assumptions
about performance, about memory, about
disk. I could build an
entire system and then realize,
Oh, my discs are slower
than I thought they were.
And that, that assumption is
now, you know, the base
of a house of cards
for my entire semester. We
see this in some of
our learners, sometimes a very
prevalent one is that people
come in with notions about,
for example, you wrote a
full loop in C and
you've got the I plus
plus at the end, you
know, I hear sometimes from
our students, although plus plus
I is quicker or like
I plus plus is quicker
than I plus equals one.
These sort of very fine
grain differences these days with
a modern compiler. There's not
going to be a difference
between any of those three
variants, but they have this
notion machine. That's actually a
mismatch for the modern machine.
And I think this is
starting to come to the
fore more and more now
with see even which people
think of as bare metal.
They're realizing actually the C
notional machine doesn't correspond to
what your processor is doing.
You know, very much at
all things like the spectrum
meltdown bug are related to
how the processor actually works,
but that's nowhere near most
people's C notional machine, which
they think of as bare
metal. That's really interesting. I
mean, I think that the
Spectre and meltdown bug was
a shakeup of the entire
world's sense of, of their
notional machine. We all thought
it worked this way, but
then I assume you had
the same experience I did.
Where a couple of days
after you kind of absorbed
the bug and slept on
the bug, You thought to
yourself, Oh, well, how could
this, I've never worked. Of
course, this is, you know,
it's a huge problem. Like
when we finally grokked what
was going on, I could
feel it in my chest.
Like, Oh no. How did
no one think about this?
Because we just At a
different idea in our head
about what the machine was
doing. Yeah, I think so.
Hey friends, this is Scott,
and I've got a word
from a new sponsor and
a really cool sponsor fact
that I use myself. They
are Sikh that's S E
Q, and you can check
them out at, get sikh.net.
That's G E T S
E q.net seek is the
easiest way for your team
to capture and search and
visualize structured log events. You
probably do logging. Maybe you
have a note app or
an asp.net core app, move
beyond text files, check out
structured, logging it, preserves those
individual property values. As well
as the text that's associated
with each event, they get
sent across the network to
seek which then displays them
and makes them searchable. It's
really easy to get started.
You can probably instrument your
application if you're already using
logging in just minutes, just
go to get seek that's
G E T S E
q.net. You install the seek
server, it's a windows service,
and then it listens and
handles all the logging, whether
you're using no JS and
the Bunyan logging library, or
maybe you use Sera log
on.net, or just asp.net core
is built in logging. Sikh
is there for whatever you
want to use, whether it
be.net or node or Python
or Java, it's a really
great product. And I encourage
you to check them out
and support them the way
that they support us here
at Hansel minutes, Relating to
your sort of earlier question
of, do you need to
know the full stack? I
think if you've, if you've
got a solid notional machine
for Java scripts, then you
don't need to know what's
going on under these, you
know, I have a reasonably
sort of classic notional machine
of, of what's going
on, but I don't really
understand what's going on when
you get down to the
register renaming units or whatever.
And it's the job of
the people on the layers
beneath me to try and
insulate me from that one
thing we find in programming
education there's a lot of
the teachers often have this
sort of full stack view
of what's going on, that
they're doing Java, but they
know how the Java maps
into, you know, assembly code.
And they feel like their
students must also gain this
knowledge. But there's sort of
still an open question to
some extent, whereas the students
don't need any of that
knowledge, as long as they
have a, a solid notion
machine of their high level
language. It's fine. And I
think we're sort of at
a certain point in computing's
chronology, where a lot of
the teachers are of the
age that they have this
kind of full stack notion
machine. Cause they started with
the more bare metal languages.
And a lot of the
learners coming in are just
learning the high level languages.
And is it an issue
I suspect the cracks show
through, at points in the
abstraction, but I think generally
it's probably not an issue
if people just have an
accurate notional machine of the
high level languages. I think
that's a really good Kind
of a gut check for
me because I'm so excited
about the full stack that
I'm excited to pour 25
years Software history into a
15 year old mind, but
ultimately they just want to
make some text flash on
the screen. It's okay. That
their metal is different than
my metal. Yeah. What am
I sort of a little
hobby horse issues is whether
we should teach binary or
not. So it's generally thought
to be a core part
of computing sort of unit
binary and how the bits
work and all that sort
of thing. But actually if
you're building in your mind,
a JavaScript notional machine binder,
you probably don't need any
binary at all. You just
need to know that it
will store the numbers. You
might need to know, for
example, floating point representations and
issues around sort of precision
in numbers, but actually sort
of getting down to kind
of, I dunno, choose compliments
seeings. And what happens if
you add with a bit
mask, like a lot of
high level programming these days,
it doesn't really need that.
And people want to teach
sort of you don't, as
you say, 15 year old
learners. And they're like, Oh,
well, you know, we should
really do binary cause it's
a fundamental concept of computing
and it is something that's
quite distinct to computing. But
if you're looking to become
a programmer, I wouldn't say
that actually binary was kind
of, you know, top of
the list of things you
need to know. Yeah. When
I, when I first got
a car, my father insisted
that I would not be
allowed to drive the car
until I learned to change
the oil. Of course, after
the fact, I learned that
you can pay someone to
do that for you and
well, you know, someone may
judge me for my inability
to change a tire. There's
also people that will do
that for you as well,
which takes away from the
joy of driving the car.
Yeah. And I think generally
societal progress has to come
from people specializing, no one
could know all things. And
so, yeah, I'm happy to
pay someone to maintain the
car. I have no idea
about it, but I've specialized
in computing. So, you know,
I'll learn my wage and
pay him the money to
do what he specialized in.
And to some extent, computing
is now large enough that
nobody can understand all of
what's going on in computing.
You can't be an AI
expert or a full stack
experts and the process of
design experts and the user
interface expert. You've got to
specialize in a particular subfield.
And I think that's fine.
And we shouldn't say that
everyone needs to understand everything
because it's just, it's sort
of, And I think that
the implied value judgements that
come through the implicit value
judgements rather than go with,
go with that. We need
to be careful that as
teachers, we don't make anyone
feel bad about that. Like
you don't know binary, or
like you just said, for
example, that you are not
necessarily totally familiar with how
the registers and stuff work.
And my knee jerk was
like, but he's got a
PhD. You probably don't have
a PhD in how registers
and XTP work and that's
okay. Yeah. I think that's
another thing that can put
people off is you get
this sort of gatekeeping effect
where people are like, Oh,
if you don't know X,
you don't really know programming.
If you don't understand what
point is doing under these,
you don't really understand programming,
but again, you could build
a JavaScript notional machine without
sort of, I think, fully
understanding pointers or pointer arithmetic
or, or any of that
stuff. I understand also that
you, you believe that the
way that I learned, which
is with slides and PowerPoints
is really the worst possible
way to learn how to
code better to have the,
the instructor write the code
on the, on the, on
the screen, almost like mob
programming. Yeah. So this is,
this is particularly for, for
houses sort of teaching and
learn programming, but there was
a study that looked at
sort of learners experience in
lecturers that they, you know,
a real novice would come
to a computing lecture. They'd
sit down, the lecturer would
show a slide with code
on it. They'd show another
slide with code on it.
And from the sort of
viewer's perspective, all this code
is perfect. They sort of
get the impression that the
person must have written this
code perfect first time that
they can just submit it
up out of their mind,
just as easily as they
click on the next slide
button and they don't get
any sense of process or
the struggles that go with
that process or anything like
that. Whereas if you do
live coding on the screen,
then often you'll kind of
make a, you know, where
you make typing mistakes as
in, you know, physical typing,
not types. Does that make
sense? Keyboard mistakes? So you'll
make keyboard mistakes. You'll maybe
if you sort of do
longer examples, you'll screw something
up in the middle and
you'll be like, Oh, what
happened there? What's that error.
And actually seeing somebody go
through the process of making
errors and tracking down errors
is very useful for them
to learn. It's okay to
make errors. Here's what you
do about it. And so
on, this is sort of
weird effect. We're actually the
more practiced and smooth you
are as a programmer, probably
the worse you are at
trying to do sort of
live coding to teach because
you don't make mistakes. I
have this workshops that I
do for some of our
software and I've done it
so many times. I can
do it without making any
mistakes. And that's actually not
very useful because seeing the
mistakes is an important part
of sort of the teaching
process. Yeah. The, as a,
as I also say that
senior developers really have just
failed a lot more than
you have. And the really
senior developers fail very, very
fast, you know, fail fast,
fail often. And if you
can, can shorten the, what
I call them, what we
at Microsoft called the developers
inner loop, the shorter that
loop can be the better
if your, your loop, when
you're a beginner might be
an hour before you realize
you've made a mistake. But
if you're, if you can
do that in minutes or
seconds, failing as quickly as
possible is gonna make you
very successful. Yeah. And that's
something we've actually looked at
in the design of some
of our beginner's ideas, because
we've seen behaviors where learners
will write a long bit
of code, maybe 20 lines,
which is a beginner is
a really big program. They'll
write 20 lines of code,
which is, you know, often
got syntax mistakes and, you
know, conceptual mistakes and whatever
in it. And then they
hit the compile button. Or
if you note the dynamic
language, you know, run button
ads, they just get hit
with a wall of mistakes.
And so one thing we
looked at doing was can
we switch to sort of
more professional ID style, error
highlighting as you go? Is
that a better sort of
feedback loop instinctively you'd think
it probably is because the
shorter feedback loop, as you
say, generally, that seems to
work out better for people
when we're learning things. And
you also say that people
spend too much time typing
in boilerplate code. If I'm
trying to say hello world,
why am I typing library
and porch statements and curly
prices and namespaces and stuff,
a live coding, doesn't have
to start with a blank
screen. Yeah, exactly. There's sort
of a, one of the
conceptions is that you, you
must understand everything that you
type and everything that you
interact with and people have
always criticized Java for its
public static void main that
doesn't really make any sense
to beginners, but it, you
know, lots of languages, a
lot of frameworks, you often
have to have some code
that a beginner won't understand,
and you can either, you
know, sort of struggle against
the tide and try and
explain every single piece in
that file before you get
going, or you just accept,
okay, they're not going to
understand all of it. Some
of it's going to be
boiler plate, give them the
boiler plate so that they
don't sort of have to
look at it and then
just focus in on what
you actually want them to
write. And it's better if
you can hide it behind
a software library or a
framework so that they don't
see this extra code, but
sometimes you do actually have
to just put it in
the file that they're they're
editing, but it's all about,
you know, could be scientists
about abstraction. You try and
abstract away all the bits
they don't need to know
so that you can focus
on the bits. So they
do need to know is
what we do with libraries.
And it's no surprise if
we also do it with,
with teaching. Yeah. The public
static void main is awful.
If you think about like,
let's learn how to program,
we're going to say, hello,
world, public static, void main,
well, now here's four concepts
that you need to learn
deeply about before we can
say hello world. Yeah. And
then, so the better thing
to do is just say,
okay, ignore that bit. That's
just got to be there.
Let's type the code in
between the curly brackets here.
And, and you know, then
you're typing one line to
say, hello, world simpler. One
of your tips is that
when teaching, we should use
authentic tasks. And I took
that to mean like real
and, you know, to matter
to the, to the, to
the student, to the kid,
if they're a teenager, they
might be more excited about
listing out MP3s or looking
at the SoundCloud or talking
to someone like that and
not interested in making, you
know, Bezier curves and drawing
spiral crafts. Yeah. Yeah. They
suffered a balance between what
you can do in a
small amount of code was
a small amount of concepts
versus a sort of trying
to make it really engaging
and interesting. But historically programming
used a lot of examples.
So they would, you know,
I remember in the eighties
or so it was kind
of, you know, printing numbers
or printing prime numbers or
a lot of cause all
you had was like the
consults to print out too.
And so those examples are
quite sort of dry. They
don't encourage a lot of
experimentation if you're not very
mathematically minded, all the numerical
ones will generally be a
turnoff. So more interesting, more
engaging examples of better someone
idea in computing education of
media computation, which is trying
to compute with sound and
images so that you get
a, a good sort of
quick idea of whether your
code works. If you try
and turn your image upside
down, you'll see whether you
managed it successfully or not.
And it maybe makes us
at a more interesting task
than these very dry tasks.
Yeah. I think that it's
important to point out that
that not every bit of
context is appropriate for everyone.
There's, there's, there's a cultural
reasons to pick one over
another there's there's generational things.
If I were teaching a
room full of seniors, I
might pick a different context
than a party Room full
of six year olds. Yeah.
You'll never satisfy everybody with
one example. So, you know,
obviously a variety is good
if you've got them for,
for the long term and
just trying to sort of
use the domain to, to
make it relatable and, and
engage as many people as
you can. And the, the
kind of the final tip,
at least we haven't gone
through all 10 and I'll
have links to this. Of
course in the, in the
show notes is you shouldn't
just code. You want to
break things down there's there's
syntax or semantics, just algorithms
coding. Isn't just kind of
wrote memorization and slap on
the keyboard. Yeah. And this,
this, this idea of Parson's
problems, which is where you
give people preformed lines of
code, but you get them
to organize it into the
right order and the right
scopes. So it's sort of
like a, a kind of
rearrangement puzzle rather than the
programming puzzle, the issue, if
you just get them to,
to code from nothing is,
you know, it requires a
lot of sort of memorizing
the commands that it could
be quite intimidating. There are
other ways to learn programming
concepts and learn code other
than just bashing it all
out yourself. Whereas that sort
of code reading tasks, quote,
manipulation tasks, there's, there's a
wider variety. If you could
just be a little bit
more imaginative about what you're
doing.  you said Parsons
P a R S O
N problem. So this is
where I would give you
say three or four lines
of code in the wrong
order. And I would put
them together in the right
order. Yeah. Yeah. That's right.
Interesting. And that's kind of
like a multiple choice, but
it's much more complicated because
it has, you know, as
order matters. Yes. Yeah. So
people learn things like the
variable declaration has to go
before the variable use. If
you're doing a language where
you require declarations or, you
know, these lines must go
in the F rather than
outside the F it's, it's
useful if you're, you're really
at the beginning. So w
other than your, your paper,
which I've included a link
to, what are some other
resources that we can leave
people with if they are
out there, either teaching programming,
or maybe they're just going
to user groups and trying
to teach some subject to
their peers. Yeah. So my,
my coauthor on the paper,
Greg Wilson has done a
lot with software carpentry, which
are these schemes to try
and teach people how to
program. And I think they're
particularly interested in sort of,
well, not data, but sort
of just scientists, you know,
people who maybe need to
do some programming as part
of their analysis, maybe to
do some data tidy up
or to, to use a
particular our library on what
they're doing, and don't really
know much programming. So they're
like, you know, these sort
of adults learners need to
just get to grips with
bits of it, to, to
learn how to program. So
software carpentry has got a
lot of interesting resources on
especially sort of teaching adults
or, or people who don't
want to become full time
programmers, but they need a
bit of programming to get
on with what they're doing.
I like that actually such
software hyphened, carpentry.org. And I
like the, the analogy implied
analogy there, because, you know,
my dad has a formal
woodworker and a crafts person,
but sometimes I just want
to cut a piece of
wood finding the right balance
between how deep do I
want to go? You don't
necessarily have to learn computer
science to put up a
WordPress site. Yeah, exactly. And
a lot of people, they
need the sort of small
bits of programs to maybe
read in a CSV and,
you know, manipulate a string
and write it out again.
They don't need to be
sat down and told, okay.
You know, here's sort of
the history of object orientation
and how the register renaming
unit works and all the
rest of it, they just
need a little bit to
get on with what they're
doing. And it's okay if
they don't understand the full
thing, if they're just writing
a bit of code to
do a job. Very cool.
Well, thanks so much for
taking the time to chat
with us today. That's okay.
It's been, it's been great.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .